It'd be nice if something happened
when they've got the taco.
A thing about life,
sometimes you get what you want and
then you just have to go
somewhere else get something else.
And so I'm thinking that mechanic for
this game like the game of
snake is when Dave gets the taco,
we move to the taco, right?
Let's do it, so in this case,
Dave can't move the taco because
Dave's code only affects Dave.
There's exceptions to this, but
let's just pretend I'm right.
So in this case,
we need to put this logic inside the taco.
And so we might say,
now I'm in the taco, don't be in Dave.
Something for you in Dave.
We'll say when the green flag is clicked,
we could just say go to a random position.
There are reasons why this
might be problematic.
We'll talk about how to fix it in
a little bit, but let's start with that.
Go to a random position and
then forever, right?
Just see, If we were touching
Dave because we ever touching
Dave he is most likely eating us.
And we'll do the simplest thing for now.
We will just go to
a different random position.
Dave has found us, move.
Let's try that out and see how it goes.
Cool, as soon as I get the taco,
the taco moves.
And I guess I have
the beginnings of a game.
Okay, I was gonna say it doesn't
feel great, but, oddly, it does.
What are some other mechanics
that we see in games?
What happens usually
when you catch something?
What are some ways to like
make us feel good, yeah?
>> You extend this snake.
>> I guess, yeah,
it was a snake I would extend it and
we will do that towards the end.
So right, yeah, do your point like
something about the game changes, right?
Maybe the difficulty increases, right?
Maybe there's something that
makes the game compelling.
What's another option?
>> Score.
>> Score, let's do score, we will actually
do all of these options, it's a fun fact,
but let's start with a score.
So it'd be nice to get
a little dopamine hit and
be able to say have some kind of idea of a
score that might go up as we get the taco.
So we can do that by going to a variable
where we keep track of the score, right?
And so
you can make any variables you want,
they give you one for
free called my variable.
You have two choices here.
You can choose to make a new one or
you can right-click on it and
rename it to score.
I don't care,
you do whichever one you want.
So I can rename this one to score.
I'm actually gonna show you also,
I'm gonna delete this one.
If you make one, you can see that you
can make it for all the sprites or for
this sprite only, right?
So if you want a score that
only the Taco knows about,
I don't know why you would
hit the sprite only.
But if you want the current position of
this sprite if you're doing something with
this particular sprite.
Otherwise the score seems like
a global variable, right?
So we'll call this score.
And things that we need to do,
I could spread this global
code all over the place.
We're gonna let the taco
be the scorekeeper, right?
Because it's gonna be the one that
knows when Dave has found it.
So let's say when the game starts,
set the score to zero, right?
We're resetting the game.
And then if it's touching Dave
changed the score by one and
move to a random position.
Awesome, so now you can see the score
is going up, I feel great about life.
You can see that score in
the upper right hand corner.